Summary of SysByz (Rodrigo, Petr, Bobby)\

Goal is to identify how we can build a large scale byzantine fault tolerant system. Common approach is to parition the nodes into smaller groups and these groups process requests for different objects. A known problem with this approach is that even when there are only a small fraction of nodes faulty in the whole system, the probability of one of the groups becoming faulty increases dramatically. A group becomes faulty if more than 1/3rd of the nodes become faulty. 

Main idea: parameterize PBFT protocol to provide higher level of fault tolerance while sacrificing liveness in the small groups. Each group has an additional backup group that periodically checks the liveness of the prmimary group and if liveness is lost, backup group takes over. Primary group executes the request which is verified by the backup group. At that point, answer becomes definitive. Clients get early response from the primary group as a speculative response. 

Positive points: clever insight to improve the fault tolerance of smaller groups. Uses speculation to improve the performance since the response created by the primary group is a tentative response, committed only after the backup group has copied the state. Clients accept tentative responses and checkpoint their state. If tentative response is correct, checkpoint is discarded. Else, checkpoint is restored. Linearizability guarantee holds only for the committed responses.

Negative points: depending on how many groups are formed, there is non-zero probability of one group loosing its safety. If primary group looses liveness, clients need to inform the backup group about the results it got from the primary.  

Comparison with our approach:
It is true that our approach can be thought of as a special case of their approach. In our instantiation, individual groups may loose liveness but not the whole system. Also, neither the groups nor the whole system never looses safety. Any other instantiation of the approach may cause the smaller groups to loose both safety and liveness since there is non-zero probability of a group having more than the tolerated faults (e.g., all nodes may fail in a small group). So, no other instantiation of their approach falls in the safe hints pattern.

